new ai agents library (#34140)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-js: sdk/ai/ai-agents/README.md

# Azure AI Agents client library for JavaScript

> Use the AI Agents client library (in preview) to:

Reviewer: Is there a reason to mention here that the library is in preview? It is easy to miss editing this when the library goes stable. We typically rather track all the version information in the changelog.

Author: I can remove it in another PR after merge, I have to update samples link to track main as well

Author: I removed this preview with other changes

      - [Fabric Data](#create-an-agent-with-fabric)
    - [Create thread](#create-thread) with
      - [Tool resource](#create-thread-with-tool-resource)
    - [Create message](#create-message) with:
      - [File search attachment](#create-message-with-file-search-attachment)
      - [Code interpreter attachment](#create-message-with-code-interpreter-attachment)
    - [Execute Run, Create Thread and Run, or Stream](#create-run-run_and_process-or-stream)
    - [Retrieve message](#retrieve-message)
    - [Retrieve file](#retrieve-file)
    - [Tear down by deleting resource](#teardown)
    - [Tracing](#tracing)
  - [Tracing](#tracing)
    - [Installation](#installation)
    - [Tracing example](#tracing-example)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
  - [Exceptions](#exceptions)
  - [Reporting issues](#reporting-issues)
  - [Next steps](#next-steps)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## Getting started

### Prerequisite

- [LTS versions of Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/release#release-schedule)
- An [Azure subscription][azure_sub].
- A [project in Azure AI Foundry](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/ai-studio/how-to/create-projects?tabs=ai-studio).

> - The project endpoint. It can be found in your Azure AI Foundry project overview page, under "Project details". Below we will assume the environment variable `PROJECT_ENDPOINT` was defined to hold this value.

Reviewer: The UI can change in the future, I suggest to remove this bullet point.

Author: removed

- Entra ID is needed to authenticate the client. Your application needs an object that implements the [TokenCredential](https://learn.microsoft.com/javascript/api/@azure/core-auth/tokencredential) interface. Code samples here use [DefaultAzureCredential](https://learn.microsoft.com/javascript/api/@azure/identity/defaultazurecredential?view=azure-node-latest). To get that working, you will need:

>   - The `Contributor` role. Role assigned can be done via the "Access Control (IAM)" tab of your Azure AI Project resource in the Azure portal.

Reviewer: I suggest to keep these details out of prerequisistes and move it to a dedicated section for auth code. Also, a link the walks through the auth steps in the portal is recommended here because UI can change.

Author: I moved these to Authorization section and added a link to portal instructions

  - [Azure CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) installed.
  - You are logged into your Azure account by running `az login`.
  - Note that if you have multiple Azure subscriptions, the subscription that contains your Azure AI Project resource must be your default subscription. Run `az account list --output table` to list all your subscription and see which one is the default. Run `az account set --subscription "Your Subscription ID or Name"` to change your default subscription.

### Install the package

```bash
npm install @azure/ai-agents @azure/identity
```

## Key concepts

### Create and authenticate the client

> The class factory method `fromConnectionString` is used to construct the client. To construct a client:

Reviewer: Is this a mistake?

Author: Yes this was from ai-projects package, I updated the description

```ts snippet:setup
import { AgentsClient } from "@azure/ai-agents";
import { DefaultAzureCredential } from "@azure/identity";

const projectEndpoint = process.env["PROJECT_ENDPOINT"] || "<project endpoint>";

> const modelDeploymentName = process.env["MODEL_DEPLOYMENT_NAME"] || "gpt-4o";

Reviewer: model deployment is not being used in this snippet, right?

Author: No, I removed it from here

const client = new AgentsClient(projectEndpoint, new DefaultAzureCredential());
```

## Examples

> ### Agents (Preview)

Reviewer: I suggest to remove the preview word

Agents in the Azure AI Projects client library are designed to facilitate various interactions and operations within your AI projects. They serve as the core components that manage and execute tasks, leveraging different tools and resources to achieve specific goals. The following steps outline the typical sequence for interacting with Agents. See the "agents" folder in the [package samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/tree/feature/azure-ai-agents/sdk/ai/ai-agents/samples) for additional Agent samples.

Agents are actively being developed. A sign-up form for private preview is coming soon.

#### Create Agent

Here is an example of how to create an Agent:

```ts snippet:createAgent
const agent = await client.createAgent("gpt-4o", {
  name: "my-agent",
  instructions: "You are a helpful assistant",
});
```

To allow Agents to access your resources or custom functions, you need tools. You can pass tools to `createAgent` through the `tools` and `toolResources` arguments.

You can use `ToolSet` to do this:

```ts snippet:toolSet
import { ToolSet } from "@azure/ai-agents";

// Create tool set
const toolSet = new ToolSet();

> await toolSet.addFileSearchTool([vectorStore.id]);

Reviewer: where did vectorStore come from? Also, why is this awaited? does it make an http request? how if it is not tied to the client yet?

Author: I expanded this snippet to show rest of the implementation

await toolSet.addCodeInterpreterTool([codeInterpreterFile.id]);

// Create agent with tool set
const agent = await client.createAgent("gpt-4o", {
  name: "my-agent",
  instructions: "You are a helpful agent",
  tools: toolSet.toolDefinitions,
  toolResources: toolSet.toolResources,
});
console.log(`Created agent, agent ID: ${agent.id}`);
```

#### Create Agent with File Search

To perform file search by an Agent, we first need to upload a file, create a vector store, and associate the file to the vector store. Here is an example:

```ts snippet:fileSearch

> import { ToolUtility } from "@azure/ai-agents";

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { ToolUtility } from "@azure/ai-agents";
import * as fs from "node:fs";
```

Author: added import here, also not captured from rushx update-snippets command

const filePath = "./data/sampleFileForUpload.txt";
const localFileStream = fs.createReadStream(filePath);
const file = await client.files.upload(localFileStream, "assistants", {
  fileName: "sampleFileForUpload.txt",
});
console.log(`Uploaded file, file ID: ${file.id}`);

const vectorStore = await client.vectorStores.create({
  fileIds: [file.id],
  name: "myVectorStore",
});
console.log(`Created vector store, vector store ID: ${vectorStore.id}`);

const fileSearchTool = ToolUtility.createFileSearchTool([vectorStore.id]);

const agent = await client.createAgent("gpt-4o", {

>   name: "SDK Test Agent - Retrieval",

Author: updated this name property

  tools: [fileSearchTool.definition],
  toolResources: fileSearchTool.resources,
});
console.log(`Created agent, agent ID : ${agent.id}`);
```

#### Create Agent with Code Interpreter

Here is an example to upload a file and use it for code interpreter by an Agent:

```ts snippet:codeInterpreter
import { ToolUtility } from "@azure/ai-agents";

const filePath = "./data/nifty500QuarterlyResults.csv";
const localFileStream = fs.createReadStream(filePath);
const localFile = await client.files.upload(localFileStream, "assistants", {
  fileName: "localFile",
});

console.log(`Uploaded local file, file ID : ${localFile.id}`);

const codeInterpreterTool = ToolUtility.createCodeInterpreterTool([localFile.id]);

// Notice that CodeInterpreter must be enabled in the agent creation, otherwise the agent will not be able to see the file attachment
const agent = await client.createAgent("gpt-4o", {
  name: "my-agent",
  instructions: "You are a helpful agent",
  tools: [codeInterpreterTool.definition],
  toolResources: codeInterpreterTool.resources,
});
console.log(`Created agent, agent ID: ${agent.id}`);
```

#### Create Agent with Bing Grounding

> To enable your Agent to perform search through Bing search API, you use `ToolUtility.createConnectionTool()` along with a connection.

Reviewer: Could we link to instructions that explains how to get a Bing connection ID?

Author: added a link to docs here

Here is an example:

```ts snippet:bingGrounding
import { ToolUtility } from "@azure/ai-agents";

const connectionId = process.env["AZURE_BING_CONNECTION_ID"] || "<connection-name>";

// Initialize agent bing tool with the connection id
const bingTool = ToolUtility.createBingGroundingTool([{ connectionId: connectionId }]);

// Create agent with the bing tool and process assistant run
const agent = await client.createAgent("gpt-4o", {
  name: "my-agent",
  instructions: "You are a helpful agent",
  tools: [bingTool.definition],
});
console.log(`Created agent, agent ID : ${agent.id}`);
```

#### Create Agent with Azure AI Search

Azure AI Search is an enterprise search system for high-performance applications. It integrates with Azure OpenAI Service and Azure Machine Learning, offering advanced search technologies like vector search and full-text search. Ideal for knowledge base insights, information discovery, and automation

Here is an example to integrate Azure AI Search:

```ts snippet:AISearch
import { ToolUtility } from "@azure/ai-agents";

> const connectionId = process.env["AZURE_AI_CONNECTION_ID"] || "<connection-name>";

Author: This was connection id before, it was just updated to use the azure ai search connection name so I will update the variable name to be more clear. As far as I know search endpoint won't work here

> const connectionId = process.env["AZURE_AI_CONNECTION_ID"] || "<connection-name>";

Author: name is now AZURE_AI_SEARCH_CONNECTION_NAME

// Initialize Azure AI Search tool
const azureAISearchTool = ToolUtility.createAzureAISearchTool(connectionId, "ai-search-sample", {
  queryType: "simple",
  topK: 3,
  filter: "",
  indexConnectionId: "",

>   indexName: "",

Reviewer: Could we use real values?

Author: Sure I will add values

              location: { type: "string", description: "The city and state, e.g. Seattle, Wa" },
              unit: { type: "string", enum: ["c", "f"] },
            },
          },
        }),
      },
    ];
  }

  private getUserFavoriteCity(): {} {
    return { location: "Seattle, WA" };
  }

  private getCityNickname(_location: string): {} {
    return { nickname: "The Emerald City" };
  }

  private getWeather(_location: string, unit: string): {} {
    return { weather: unit === "f" ? "72f" : "22c" };
  }

  public invokeTool(toolCall: RequiredToolCall & FunctionToolDefinition): ToolOutput | undefined {
    console.log(`Function tool call - ${toolCall.function.name}`);
    const args = [];
    if (toolCall.function.parameters) {
      try {
        const params = JSON.parse(toolCall.function.parameters);
        for (const key in params) {
          if (Object.prototype.hasOwnProperty.call(params, key)) {
            args.push(params[key]);
          }
        }
      } catch (error) {
        console.error(`Failed to parse parameters: ${toolCall.function.parameters}`, error);
        return undefined;
      }
    }
    const result = this.functionTools

>       .find((tool) => tool.definition.function.name === toolCall.function.name)

Reviewer: nitpic: use a map to make lookup efficient.

Author: I updated this to use map

      ?.func(...args);
    return result
      ? {
          toolCallId: toolCall.id,
          output: JSON.stringify(result),
        }

>       : undefined;

Reviewer: This check is confusing, if the function call returns `0`, this function will return `undefined`!

Author: I updated to show an error message instead of undefined here

  }

  public getFunctionDefinitions(): FunctionToolDefinition[] {
    return this.functionTools.map((tool) => {
      return tool.definition;
    });
  }
}
const functionToolExecutor = new FunctionToolExecutor();
const functionTools = functionToolExecutor.getFunctionDefinitions();
const agent = await client.createAgent("gpt-4o", {
  name: "my-agent",
  instructions:
    "You are a weather bot. Use the provided functions to help answer questions. Customize your responses to the user's preferences as much as possible and use friendly nicknames for cities whenever possible.",
  tools: functionTools,
});
console.log(`Created agent, agent ID: ${agent.id}`);
```

#### Create Agent With OpenAPI

OpenAPI specifications describe REST operations against a specific endpoint. Agents SDK can read an OpenAPI spec, create a function from it, and call that function against the REST endpoint without additional client-side execution.
Here is an example creating an OpenAPI tool (using anonymous authentication):

```ts snippet:createAgentWithOpenApi

> import { ToolUtility } from "@azure/ai-agents";
> 
> // Read in OpenApi spec
> const filePath = "./data/weatherOpenApi.json";
> const openApiSpec = JSON.parse(fs.readFileSync(filePath, "utf-8"));

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { ToolUtility } from "@azure/ai-agents";
import * as fs from "node:fs/promises";

// Read in OpenApi spec
const filePath = "./data/weatherOpenApi.json";
const openApiSpec = JSON.parse(await fs.readFile(filePath, "utf-8"));
```

Author: I updated this snippet to include fs import. For some reason these aren't being included when running rushx update-snippets command even though import is included in snippets.spec.ts file, that's how others are being added here

// Define OpenApi function
const openApiFunction = {
  name: "getWeather",
  spec: openApiSpec,
  description: "Retrieve weather information for a location",
  auth: {
    type: "anonymous",
  },
  default_params: ["format"], // optional
};

// Create OpenApi tool
const openApiTool = ToolUtility.createOpenApiTool(openApiFunction);

// Create agent with OpenApi tool
const agent = await client.createAgent("gpt-4o", {
  name: "myAgent",
  instructions: "You are a helpful agent",
  tools: [openApiTool.definition],
});
console.log(`Created agent, agent ID: ${agent.id}`);
```

#### Create an Agent with Fabric

To enable your Agent to answer queries using Fabric data, use `FabricTool` along with a connection to the Fabric resource.

Here is an example:

```ts snippet:createAgentWithFabric
import { ToolUtility } from "@azure/ai-agents";

> const connectionId = process.env["FABRIC_CONNECTION_ID"] || "<connection-name>";

Reviewer: is this a connection string?

Author: No this uses the connection id in this format: /subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourceGroups/{resourceGroupName}/providers/Microsoft.CognitiveServices/accounts/{AIservicename}/projects/{projectName}/connections/{connectionName}

// notice that CodeInterpreter must be enabled in the agent creation,
// otherwise the agent will not be able to see the file attachment for code interpretation
const codeInterpreterTool = ToolUtility.createCodeInterpreterTool();
const agent = await client.agents.createAgent("gpt-4o", {
  name: "my-assistant",
  instructions: "You are helpful assistant",
  tools: [codeInterpreterTool.definition],
});
console.log(`Created agent, agent ID: ${agent.id}`);

const thread = await client.threads.create();
console.log(`Created thread, thread ID: ${thread.id}`);

const message = await client.messages.create(
  thread.id,
  "user",
  "Could you please create a bar chart in the TRANSPORTATION sector for the operating profit from the uploaded CSV file and provide the file to me?",
  {
    attachments: [
      {
        fileId: file.id,
        tools: [codeInterpreterTool.definition],
      },
    ],
  },
);
console.log(`Created message, message ID: ${message.id}`);
```

#### Create Message with Image Inputs

You can send messages to Azure agents with image inputs in following ways:

- **Using an image stored as a uploaded file**
- **Using a public image accessible via URL**

> - **Using a base64 encoded image string**

Reviewer: I think it is excessive to show code snippets for every possible way to input an image in the readme file. Could we just stick to one?

Author: Okay, I removed others to only show base64 method

the right to, and actually do, grant us the rights to use your contribution.
For details, visit https://cla.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA-bot will automatically determine whether
you need to provide a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., label,
comment). Simply follow the instructions provided by the bot. You will only
need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the
[Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct][code_of_conduct]. For more information,
see the Code of Conduct FAQ or contact opencode@microsoft.com with any
additional questions or comments.

<!-- LINKS -->

[code_of_conduct]: https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/
[entra_id]: https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/ai-services/authentication?tabs=powershell#authenticate-with-microsoft-entra-id
[azure_identity_npm]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@azure/identity
[default_azure_credential]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/tree/main/sdk/identity/identity#defaultazurecredential
[azure_sub]: https://azure.microsoft.com/free/
[evaluators]: https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/ai-studio/how-to/develop/evaluate-sdk

> [evaluator_library]: https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/ai-studio/how-to/evaluate-generative-ai-app#view-and-manage-the-evaluators-in-the-evaluator-library

Author: No these are outdated from projects package, removing
